NodeAPI/doc.md, before:

# Node API
Version 1 (GPI 0.2.0-n1, 2014Apr12)

# WIDGETS

        
This is a list of widgets and their associated attributes to aid in
        parameterizing and declaring widget.
        
###  GenericWidgetGroup
 This is the base-class for all widgets.  It provides abstract methods
     and default behavior.  From the node-developer's perspective, this
     provides the widget-port, visibility, and collapsibility options.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 collapsed |  bool | Only hide the 'collapsable' elements of a  widget within its groupbox.
 id |  int | INTERNAL USE ONLY: used for saving network  information that will aid in reinstantiation.
 inport |  bool | Turn the widget inport on/off with a bool.
 outport |  bool | Turn the widget outport on/off with a bool.
 quietval |  (same type as val) | Set the central value of a widget without triggering an event.
 reset |  No Arg | Widgets that need to be reset automatically  implement this function (e.g. pushbuttons  where the button needs to be raised again  after the node compute()).
 val |  type(val) | Set the central value of a widget.
 visible |  bool | Set the widget groupbox's visibility within  the node menu.

###  ComboBox
 Provides a popup list for different labels.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 index |  int | gives the corresponding index of the chosen item, starting at 0.  So, for example, self.getAttr('myfruitbox',index) would return a 2 if 'orange' were selected from the item list given in this table, while self.getVal('myfruitbox') would return the string 'orange'. 
 items |  list(str,str,...) | list of items to choose from. Only one item can be chosen from the list. 
 val |  int | item index

###  DisplayBox
 A 2D QPixmap using a QLabel using built-in interpolation schemes.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 interp |  bool | Interpolated scaling / nearest neighbor, boolean True/False.
 line |  N/A | Doesn't do anything yet.          
 noscroll |  bool | Turn display window scroll on/off with boolean False/True.
 pixmap |  QPixmap | A QPixmap to be displayed.
 points |  N/A | Doesn't do anything yet.          
 scale |  float | Pre-defined image dimension scale (float)
 val |  QImage | Image is a QImage().          

###  DoubleSpinBox
 Spin box for floating point values. 
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 decimals |  int | The number of displayed decimal places (int).
 immediate |  bool | Make the value changes immediate with scroll wheel etc...
 label |  str | Set a text left of the spinbox (str).
 max |  float | Max float value (<=).
 min |  float | Min float value (>=).
 singlestep |  float | The stepsize of one up/down button click (float).
 val |  float | The value (float).
 wrapping |  bool | Allow the up/down buttons to cause a wrap  when exceeding max or min values (bool).

###  ExclusivePushButtons
 Provides a set of check boxes for different labels.
     -Buttons are placed side-by-side.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 buttons |  list(str,str,...) | A list of labels (e.g. ['b1', 'b2',...]).
 val |  int | The position of the chosen button (zero-based, int).

###  ExclusiveRadioButtons
 Provides a set of check boxes for different labels.
     -Buttons are stacked.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 buttons |  list(str,str,...) | A list of labels (e.g. ['b1', 'b2',...]).
 val |  int | The position of the chosen button (zero-based, int).

###  NonExclusivePushButtons
 Provides a set of check boxes for different labels.
     -Buttons are placed side-by-side.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 buttons |  list(str,str,...) | A list of labels (e.g. ['b1', 'b2',...]).
 val |  int or list(int,int,...) | The position of the chosen button (zero-based, int or list).

###  OpenFileBrowser
 Provide a QFileDialog() at the push of a button.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 button_title |  str | A title centered on the pushbutton (str).
 caption |  str | Set browser title-bar (str).
 directory |  str | Set the default directory (str).
 filter |  str | Set the file extension filter (e.g. 'io_field (*.fld);;all (*)').          
 val |  str | The filename and path (str).

###  PushButton
 A simple single pushbutton box.
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 button_title |  str | Place a title, centered, on the button.
 toggle |  bool | Make the pushbutton a toggle button on/off -> True/False.
 val |  bool | The button state is a bool: on/off -> True/False.

###  SaveFileBrowser
 Provide a QFileDialog() at the push of a button.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 button_title |  str | A title centered on the pushbutton (str).
 caption |  str | Set browser title-bar (str).
 directory |  str | Set the default directory (str).
 filter |  str | Set the file extension filter (e.g. 'io_field (*.fld);;all (*)').          
 val |  str | The filename and path (str).

###  Slider
 A slider for integer values. 
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 max |  int | Max integer value (<=).
 min |  int | Min integer value (>=).
 val |  int | The value (int).

###  SpinBox
 Spin box for integer values. 
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 immediate |  bool | Make the value changes immediate with scroll wheel etc...
 label |  str | Set a text left of the spinbox (str).
 max |  int | Max integer value (<=).
 min |  int | Min integer value (>=).
 singlestep |  int | The stepsize of one up/down button click (int).
 val |  int | The value (int).
 wrapping |  int | The number of displayed decimal places (int).

###  StringBox
 A simple single line string box.
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 mask |  bool | Toggle input mask
 maskedval |  None | No setter for storing.          
 val |  str | Set the string (str).

###  TextBox
 Provides a multi-line plain-text display.
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 openExternalLinks |  bool | Open hyperrefs
 val |  str | The full plain-text to be displayed (str).
 wordwrap |  bool | Turn on/off with boolean True/False.

###  TextEdit
 Provides an editable text window with
     scrollbar and python code syntax highlighting.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 val |  str | The full plain-text to be displayed (str).

###  WebBox
 For loading web urls. 
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 passwd |  str | For login sites
 username |  str | For login sites
 val |  str | The url (str).


# PORT Types

        
The following types are used to define a node port for limiting the
        connection between nodes to the predefined port-types.  These labels are
        used when implementing `addInPort()` and `addOutPort()` port declaration
        functions.

        
### PASS
        
Has the affinity for any port type and allows any port connection.
        
###   GLOList
 Allows passing GPI-GL object definitions to be passed in lists.
     

###   NPYarray
 The NPYarray type provides port enforcement for numpy
     multidimensional arrays (ndarray).  The enforcement parms
     are type (ndarray), dtype, ndim, dimension range (drange),
     shape, and vec (the len of the last dim).  Enforcement
     priority for aliased parms goes ndim->drange->shape.  Although
     shape and vec can overlap, they are enforced independently.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 drange |  tuple(int,int) | Requires a dimension range tuple (min, max).
 dtype |  numpy dtype | Requires an NPY type (i.e. float32, complex64, etc...)
 ndim |  int | Set enforcement for the number of dimensions.  Requires (int).
 shape |  tuple(int,int,...) | Requires the dimension lengths in an integer tuple.
 vec |  int | Requires an integer representing the length of the last  (most varying) dimension (or shape[-1]).

###   COMPLEX
 Enforcement for the standard python-complex.

###   DICT
 Enforcement for the standard python-dict.

###   FLOAT
 Enforcement for the standard python-float.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 range |  float | Specify a float range using a tuple (min, max).

###   INT
 Enforcement for the standard python-int.
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 range |  int | Specify an integer range using a tuple (min, max).

###   LIST
 Enforcement for the standard python-list.

###   LONG
 Enforcement for the standard python-long.
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 range |  tuple(int,int) | Specify an integer range using a tuple (min, max).

###   STRING
 Enforcement for the standard python-str.

###   TUPLE
 Enforcement for the standard python-tuple.



# GETTERS & SETTERS


        
Getters & Setters are functions that make up the node API.  They provide
        access to the UI elements (i.e. in-ports, out-ports, widgets).
        
## Node Initialization


        
These methods are used to declare in-ports, out-ports and widgets within
        the `initUI()` node method.
        
### addWidget
                addWidget(self, wdg=None, title=None, **kwargs)
                        wdg = (str) corresponds to the widget class name
                        title = (str) is the string label given in the node-menu
                        kwargs = corresponds to the set_<arg> methods specific
                                    to the chosen wdg-class.


### addInPort
                addInPort(self, title=None, type=None, obligation=100, menuWidget=None, cyclic=False, **kwargs)
                        title = (str) port-title shown in tooltips
                        type = (str) class name of extended type
                        obligation = gpi.REQUIRED or gpi.OPTIONAL (default REQUIRED)
                        menuWidget = INTERNAL USE
                        kwargs = any set_<arg> method belonging to the
                                    GPIDefaultType derived class.


### addOutPort
                addOutPort(self, title=None, type=None, obligation=100, menuWidget=None, **kwargs)
                        title = (str) port-title shown in tooltips
                        type = (str) class name of extended type
                        obligation = dummy parm to match function footprint
                        menuWidget = INTERNAL USE
                        kwargs = any set_<arg> method belonging to the
                                    GPIDefaultType derived class.


## Node Compute


        
These methods are used to reference data from in-ports, out-ports and widgets
        within the `compute()` routine.
        
### getVal
                getVal(self, title)
                        Returns get_val() from wdg-class (see getAttr()).
                                


### getAttr
                getAttr(self, title, attr)
                        title = (str) wdg-class name
                        attr = (str) corresponds to the get_<arg> of the desired attribute.


### setAttr
                setAttr(self, title, **kwargs)
                        title = (str) the corresponding widget name.
                        kwargs = args corresponding to the get_<arg> methods of the wdg-class.


### getData
                getData(self, title)
                        title = (str) the name of the InPort.
                                


### setData
                setData(self, title, data)
                        title = (str) name of the OutPort to send the object reference.
                        data = (object) any object corresponding to a GPIType class.

Commit message:

Added autogen message to docs that shouldn't be modified by hand.

NodeAPI/doc.md, after:

<b>This file was auto-generated via the docs.py script (GPI 0.2.0-n1, 2014Apr12).  Do not edit this file directly.</b>

# Node API


# WIDGETS

        
This is a list of widgets and their associated attributes to aid in
        parameterizing and declaring widget.
        
###  GenericWidgetGroup
 This is the base-class for all widgets.  It provides abstract methods
     and default behavior.  From the node-developer's perspective, this
     provides the widget-port, visibility, and collapsibility options.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 collapsed |  bool | Only hide the 'collapsable' elements of a  widget within its groupbox.
 id |  int | INTERNAL USE ONLY: used for saving network  information that will aid in reinstantiation.
 inport |  bool | Turn the widget inport on/off with a bool.
 outport |  bool | Turn the widget outport on/off with a bool.
 quietval |  (same type as val) | Set the central value of a widget without triggering an event.
 reset |  No Arg | Widgets that need to be reset automatically  implement this function (e.g. pushbuttons  where the button needs to be raised again  after the node compute()).
 val |  type(val) | Set the central value of a widget.
 visible |  bool | Set the widget groupbox's visibility within  the node menu.

###  ComboBox
 Provides a popup list for different labels.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 index |  int | gives the corresponding index of the chosen item, starting at 0.  So, for example, self.getAttr('myfruitbox',index) would return a 2 if 'orange' were selected from the item list given in this table, while self.getVal('myfruitbox') would return the string 'orange'. 
 items |  list(str,str,...) | list of items to choose from. Only one item can be chosen from the list. 
 val |  int | item index

###  DisplayBox
 A 2D QPixmap using a QLabel using built-in interpolation schemes.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 interp |  bool | Interpolated scaling / nearest neighbor, boolean True/False.
 line |  N/A | Doesn't do anything yet.          
 noscroll |  bool | Turn display window scroll on/off with boolean False/True.
 pixmap |  QPixmap | A QPixmap to be displayed.
 points |  N/A | Doesn't do anything yet.          
 scale |  float | Pre-defined image dimension scale (float)
 val |  QImage | Image is a QImage().          

###  DoubleSpinBox
 Spin box for floating point values. 
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 decimals |  int | The number of displayed decimal places (int).
 immediate |  bool | Make the value changes immediate with scroll wheel etc...
 label |  str | Set a text left of the spinbox (str).
 max |  float | Max float value (<=).
 min |  float | Min float value (>=).
 singlestep |  float | The stepsize of one up/down button click (float).
 val |  float | The value (float).
 wrapping |  bool | Allow the up/down buttons to cause a wrap  when exceeding max or min values (bool).

###  ExclusivePushButtons
 Provides a set of check boxes for different labels.
     -Buttons are placed side-by-side.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 buttons |  list(str,str,...) | A list of labels (e.g. ['b1', 'b2',...]).
 val |  int | The position of the chosen button (zero-based, int).

###  ExclusiveRadioButtons
 Provides a set of check boxes for different labels.
     -Buttons are stacked.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 buttons |  list(str,str,...) | A list of labels (e.g. ['b1', 'b2',...]).
 val |  int | The position of the chosen button (zero-based, int).

###  NonExclusivePushButtons
 Provides a set of check boxes for different labels.
     -Buttons are placed side-by-side.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 buttons |  list(str,str,...) | A list of labels (e.g. ['b1', 'b2',...]).
 val |  int or list(int,int,...) | The position of the chosen button (zero-based, int or list).

###  OpenFileBrowser
 Provide a QFileDialog() at the push of a button.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 button_title |  str | A title centered on the pushbutton (str).
 caption |  str | Set browser title-bar (str).
 directory |  str | Set the default directory (str).
 filter |  str | Set the file extension filter (e.g. 'io_field (*.fld);;all (*)').          
 val |  str | The filename and path (str).

###  PushButton
 A simple single pushbutton box.
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 button_title |  str | Place a title, centered, on the button.
 toggle |  bool | Make the pushbutton a toggle button on/off -> True/False.
 val |  bool | The button state is a bool: on/off -> True/False.

###  SaveFileBrowser
 Provide a QFileDialog() at the push of a button.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 button_title |  str | A title centered on the pushbutton (str).
 caption |  str | Set browser title-bar (str).
 directory |  str | Set the default directory (str).
 filter |  str | Set the file extension filter (e.g. 'io_field (*.fld);;all (*)').          
 val |  str | The filename and path (str).

###  Slider
 A slider for integer values. 
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 max |  int | Max integer value (<=).
 min |  int | Min integer value (>=).
 val |  int | The value (int).

###  SpinBox
 Spin box for integer values. 
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 immediate |  bool | Make the value changes immediate with scroll wheel etc...
 label |  str | Set a text left of the spinbox (str).
 max |  int | Max integer value (<=).
 min |  int | Min integer value (>=).
 singlestep |  int | The stepsize of one up/down button click (int).
 val |  int | The value (int).
 wrapping |  int | The number of displayed decimal places (int).

###  StringBox
 A simple single line string box.
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 mask |  bool | Toggle input mask
 maskedval |  None | No setter for storing.          
 val |  str | Set the string (str).

###  TextBox
 Provides a multi-line plain-text display.
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 openExternalLinks |  bool | Open hyperrefs
 val |  str | The full plain-text to be displayed (str).
 wordwrap |  bool | Turn on/off with boolean True/False.

###  TextEdit
 Provides an editable text window with
     scrollbar and python code syntax highlighting.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 val |  str | The full plain-text to be displayed (str).

###  WebBox
 For loading web urls. 
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 passwd |  str | For login sites
 username |  str | For login sites
 val |  str | The url (str).


# PORT Types

        
The following types are used to define a node port for limiting the
        connection between nodes to the predefined port-types.  These labels are
        used when implementing `addInPort()` and `addOutPort()` port declaration
        functions.

        
### PASS
        
Has the affinity for any port type and allows any port connection.
        
###   GLOList
 Allows passing GPI-GL object definitions to be passed in lists.
     

###   NPYarray
 The NPYarray type provides port enforcement for numpy
     multidimensional arrays (ndarray).  The enforcement parms
     are type (ndarray), dtype, ndim, dimension range (drange),
     shape, and vec (the len of the last dim).  Enforcement
     priority for aliased parms goes ndim->drange->shape.  Although
     shape and vec can overlap, they are enforced independently.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 drange |  tuple(int,int) | Requires a dimension range tuple (min, max).
 dtype |  numpy dtype | Requires an NPY type (i.e. float32, complex64, etc...)
 ndim |  int | Set enforcement for the number of dimensions.  Requires (int).
 shape |  tuple(int,int,...) | Requires the dimension lengths in an integer tuple.
 vec |  int | Requires an integer representing the length of the last  (most varying) dimension (or shape[-1]).

###   COMPLEX
 Enforcement for the standard python-complex.

###   DICT
 Enforcement for the standard python-dict.

###   FLOAT
 Enforcement for the standard python-float.
     
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 range |  float | Specify a float range using a tuple (min, max).

###   INT
 Enforcement for the standard python-int.
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 range |  int | Specify an integer range using a tuple (min, max).

###   LIST
 Enforcement for the standard python-list.

###   LONG
 Enforcement for the standard python-long.
attribute | type | description
--- | --- | ---
 range |  tuple(int,int) | Specify an integer range using a tuple (min, max).

###   STRING
 Enforcement for the standard python-str.

###   TUPLE
 Enforcement for the standard python-tuple.



# GETTERS & SETTERS


        
Getters & Setters are functions that make up the node API.  They provide
        access to the UI elements (i.e. in-ports, out-ports, widgets).
        
## Node Initialization


        
These methods are used to declare in-ports, out-ports and widgets within
        the `initUI()` node method.
        
### addWidget
                addWidget(self, wdg=None, title=None, **kwargs)
                        wdg = (str) corresponds to the widget class name
                        title = (str) is the string label given in the node-menu
                        kwargs = corresponds to the set_<arg> methods specific
                                    to the chosen wdg-class.


### addInPort
                addInPort(self, title=None, type=None, obligation=100, menuWidget=None, cyclic=False, **kwargs)
                        title = (str) port-title shown in tooltips
                        type = (str) class name of extended type
                        obligation = gpi.REQUIRED or gpi.OPTIONAL (default REQUIRED)
                        menuWidget = INTERNAL USE
                        kwargs = any set_<arg> method belonging to the
                                    GPIDefaultType derived class.


### addOutPort
                addOutPort(self, title=None, type=None, obligation=100, menuWidget=None, **kwargs)
                        title = (str) port-title shown in tooltips
                        type = (str) class name of extended type
                        obligation = dummy parm to match function footprint
                        menuWidget = INTERNAL USE
                        kwargs = any set_<arg> method belonging to the
                                    GPIDefaultType derived class.


## Node Compute


        
These methods are used to reference data from in-ports, out-ports and widgets
        within the `compute()` routine.
        
### getVal
                getVal(self, title)
                        Returns get_val() from wdg-class (see getAttr()).
                                


### getAttr
                getAttr(self, title, attr)
                        title = (str) wdg-class name
                        attr = (str) corresponds to the get_<arg> of the desired attribute.


### setAttr
                setAttr(self, title, **kwargs)
                        title = (str) the corresponding widget name.
                        kwargs = args corresponding to the get_<arg> methods of the wdg-class.


### getData
                getData(self, title)
                        title = (str) the name of the InPort.
                                


### setData
                setData(self, title, data)
                        title = (str) name of the OutPort to send the object reference.
                        data = (object) any object corresponding to a GPIType class.
